[Music]
if you see this tree run fast and yell
for help plants and trees surround you
pretty much wherever you go in fact
there are over three trillion trees on
our planet
way more than scientists thought just a
decade ago and that's great news
since trees and other plants clean our
air help prevent water pollution and
soil erosion and provide us with oxygen
and cooling shade on a hot day some of
them even supply people with food
so basically trees are awesome well
except for the ones that kill after
watching this video you'll be much more
cautious around certain tree species and
probably won't even dare to come near
them be ready for some shocking and
scary information you'll never forget
this one tree that can literally rain
acid on you the sandbox tree thank
goodness this tree is really easy to
recognize so that you'll know to stay
far away from them it can reach heights
of 130 feet its trunk is covered with
cone-shaped spikes and it's fruit looks
like mini pumpkins every part of this
tree is dangerous to people if you get
it SAP in your eyes blindness can become
a frightening ly real possibility if you
accidentally eat the fruit your body
will have an almost instant reaction
with cramps vomiting and diarrhea and if
all that isn't enough to keep you at a
distance when the fruit matures it
becomes dark brown and explodes shooting
seeds a whopping 150 miles per hour in
all directions
you can imagine what a serious injury
that could cause if you ever get in the
way of these organic bullets the cherry
tree and its relatives this might come
as a surprise but there's no mistake
here cherry trees can be extremely
dangerous especially for small children
and dogs the cherry trees relatives
include peach plum apricot choke cherry
and other trees of this kind all of them
release particular chemicals that later
metabolize into cyanide if we talk about
cherry trees in particular you can find
these chemicals throughout the plant
especially in high concentrations on
fallen and wilted leaves if a child or
dog eats just one or two of this tree's
leaves they'll suffer from a horrible
stomach ache and if they eat more than
that they'll most likely end up with
cyanide poisoning so if you notice
symptoms like weak pulse
seizures dark urine and gums and
difficulties breathing call for help
immediately cyanide poisoning can easily
and quickly become fatal the Ohio
Buckeye this is one more tree we bet
you've never suspected of presenting any
sort of danger but in fact it's quite a
threat all parts of the Ohio Buckeye
tree contains a penis which are
chemicals that depress the central
nervous system little kids as well as
pets love playing with the brown shiny
Buckeye nuts that fall onto the ground
just make sure that your little ones
don't put them in their mouths if
children or dogs eat or chew on Buckeyes
they'll most likely suffer from vomiting
and diarrhea pets may have trouble
breathing or start to stagger and shake
if you have an Ohio Buckeye tree near
your house your best and safest bet is
to pick up all the nuts and twigs and
keep them out of your kids and pets
reach the Apple and crabapple tree some
more shocking news good old trusty apple
trees aren't so trusty after all they
can be poisonous to different mammals
such as cats dogs and people the thing
is that just like the cherry tree the
leaves stems and seeds of this tree
contain that very same chemical that's
metabolized into cyanide during
digestion again fallen leaves are most
dangerous than those still attached to
the branches but the biggest amount of
the chemical is in the apple seeds
themselves of course you're unlikely to
swallow 200 seeds or munch on 20 apple
cores which is the fatal dosage for
people but if pets and other animals eat
too many apples it can easily kill them
the Samara
Oh dollop this tree goes by another name
the suicide tree it's clear from the
nickname that this tree can take a life
it grows in South Asia and India where
some desperate people are willing to end
their lives just by eating the extremely
toxic fruit of this tree when mature
these fruits look like miniature mangoes
you shouldn't ever eat them or touch the
tree some of the trees components are
used to make deodorants and pesticides
but in its pure form the Saburo dalam
can be deadly
the man chenille tree if you travel to
the Caribbean the tropical parts of
North America or the northern parts of
South America
you may notice trees marked with red
crosses warning signs or a red ring
painted on them do not do what
radiologist Nicholas Strickland did and
never ever approach this tree dr.
Strickland and her friend were on
vacation on the tropical Caribbean
island of Tobago when they found some
sweet-smelling green fruit resembling
crab apples on the beach without even a
moment's hesitation they bit into the
tempting fruit after just a couple of
seconds the initial sweetness turned
into a terrible burning sensation in
their mouth terrifyingly not only did
the fruit taste awful it also made their
throats swell up to such a point that
they couldn't swallow and could hardly
breathe the thing is that the
unfortunate vacationers stumbled across
the most dangerous tree in the world
also known as the tree of death it has
such a notorious reputation than it was
even put in the Guinness Book of World
Records in 2011 as strange as it might
sound the mansion eel belongs to the
diverse euphorbia genus which is the
same family as the beautiful yet also
slightly toxic Christmas poinsettias and
what exactly is so dangerous about the
mansion eel tree of death well
everything in short highly toxic milky
sap loses out of the trees leaves bark
and fruit it contains all kinds of
toxins but the most lethal is formal due
to the fact that this organic compound
is water-soluble you won't want to seek
shelter from the rain under a man
chenille tree raindrops will mix with
the SAP and really harm your skin
causing severe burns blistering and skin
irritation
if you come across this tree don't touch
its bark either as we've already
mentioned it's also covered in poisonous
SAP and even if it comes into contact
with your skin it can cause blindness do
not burn man chenille wood even if you
have nothing else at hand to start a
fire the smoke from this fire will
definitely lead to eye inflammation and
even temporary blindness but the most
dangerous thing you can do is eat poison
guava that's the nickname of the man
chenille trees fruit in a shocking
majority of cases this careless action
turns out fatal because terrible
diarrhea and severe vomiting dehydrate
the body to such an extent that there's
no way to reverse the damage what's more
even if you haven't swallowed the fruit
but just bitten into it its juice will
lead to painful boils that will cover
your throat in the insides of your mouth
luckily Nicolas Strickland and her
friends survived this near-death
experience since they didn't have time
to eat much of the poison apple but when
they told the locals what had happened
to them
Nicola noticed the look of utter horror
in their faces the tourists were
extremely lucky that after eight hours
of intense pain the swelling went away
and if you're sitting there wondering
why don't the locals just cut all the
trees down well that's a reasonable
question but it's more complicated than
that man chenille trees play an
extremely important role in the
ecosystem for example since they grow in
dense thickets they protect Central
American beaches from erosion and serve
as windbreakers have you ever had to
deal with any of the dangerous trees
mentioned in the video tell us in the
comments below don't forget to click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life